OK so what is routing Well right now we only have one home page component that pretty much comprises
our entire app but what if we had multiple page components like an about page or a shop page or a checkout
page that needed to be rendered depending on what you are.
The user wasn't at.
Well that is what routing seeks to solve and the routing library.
We're gonna use is called react router Dom.
Now there are other routing libraries out there for react but react router John is the most popular
and most supported library for routing when it comes to building or application and react.
It's easy to understand and it follows are component driven architecture.
So let's actually try it out.
So how do we use it.
Well first we have to install rack rudder Dom and what I'm gonna do is I am going to kill our server
and I'm going to yawn and react router John.
Now there is a chance that our libraries for battle just will conflict again like it did when we first
installed node SAS.
And if it does I'm going to show you how we can fix that issue.
So if you're running and start yes.
So we see that that's an issue.
OK.
That's fine.
The reason for this is because there are dependencies between the react scripts that's in our create
react app for babble just that is different from the one that is being required from some other version
of a library that we install.
Right.
But this is OK because it looks like the major versions are not in conflict.
It's just this minor it's the seven versus the eight.
So what we can do with yarn is inside of our package Jason we can add a resolution's prop. And we can
tell it that we want Apple just to always be twenty four point seven point one no matter what.
So now if we've re install all of our dependencies we'll see that we're forcing babble just to be twenty
four point seven point one and now we should have no problem starting our application awesome.
OK.
So let's actually see how to use react router Dom.
Well first we have to go to our next start Jess and we have to import in browser router from react router
Dom and browser router is a component that we're actually going to wrap around our application and what
this component does is it gives our application that's sitting between this component all of the functionality
of routing that this library provides now in order for me to show you what react rather does I'm just
going to write a bit of code first because it will make more sense if you see it so I'm going to import
this component route from RAC runner Dom and then I'm just going to make a quick component that renders
out a div with an H1 of hearts page and this is just going to represent another page alternate to our
home page right now.
Call a Hearts page.
So how this root component works is that it's a component that takes a couple of arguments.
The main ones that I want to focus on are exact path and component now component will be the component
that we want to render right.
We want the root to render.
So for now let's just use home page.
The path will be a string that's equal to the path itself from the current place and all.
So because what the very base of our application.
Right.
The Your L is going to when we put slash the base you are L is just logos 3000 or like are you are L
without any additional sub your URLs following are you url.
So what this means is that when the U R L is at the base.
Right.
Just slash then I want to render the home page somewhat local host I just want to render the homepage
exact is a true or false property.
So we are the path.
True or false.
And if you just keep it as this with no equals then it's equal to true it means that this path must
be exactly slash in order for this component to render our home page component render.
If the root for example without exact let's say the U R L was local host three thousand slash hats.
Right.
Slash is technically still true.
This part of the U R L right here is still true.
So our home page will actually still render so.
Let me show you how that would happen.
So let's write another route where our path is hats and when it's hearths we want to render the hearts
Page Well now if we go to our application if we navigate to hearts we'll see that we have our home page
and then underneath we have our hearts page.
So without the exact as long as the path matches right.
As long as it's present then it will render the home page.
But if we make sure that its exact then now it won't render the home page unless it's exactly this path
of just the.
These are pretty much the main things that we need out of our route component.
There's a couple others for more nuanced examples that we might explore later in the application.
But most of the time it's very easy.
You can just go to the rack router Dom Quick Start documentation and you can see all of the API that
you have access to.
But this routing is the main one that we're gonna utilize.
The other component I want to show is the switch component
now to use the switch component.
We wrap our route components within it
now what it does is the moment that a route inside of it finds a match in the path.
It does not render anything else but that route.
So before when we went to our hats you are all right.
If we remove the exact if we go to our hats you are all we know that we were matching the slash and
the slash has but switch will match slash first and then it will not render anything else after it so
if we look and we go to hats right.
We'll see that we have our home page but there's no hats page.
And the reason for this is because of switch.
So the moment switch sees something match the path.
Right.
As long as a route gets rendered then it just renders that route it renders nothing else.
Now if we put the exact back then we will of course render our hearts page because this home page with
the exact path the forward slash never matched.
At this you are all of slash hats and if we go back to our home page while we're going to render our
home page so the switch is useful because it gives us more control over our code right.
It allows us to kind of follow a pattern where we know that as long as one route matches then that's
the only thing we're going to render and that's useful.
If we don't want to accidentally render multiple components write it just a lot more control that we
get from the library.
But this switch and this route component there are the basic components that we're going to use to build
out this application.
And as we build of course we're going to pull in a little bit more and we're going to write some more
complex code with RAC router dom.
But conceptually this is what routing is in our project.